# New York City Noise Complaint
 
Noise complaints are a common issue in Urban areas, as the close propinquity of structures and a large number of people can produce significant situations of noise pollution. Several approaches can be used to address noise complaints in civic areas, including noise-reducing structure accoutrements and design, sound walls, and zoning regulations. Some metropolises also have devoted agencies or departments that handle noise complaints and work to alleviate sources of inordinate noise.
Noise pollution is one of the challenges faced as a result of urbanization. It can affect individual mental health, increase the risk of heart disease, sleep disturbance, and tinnitus, and incapacitate one’s ability to work inefficiently. New Yorkers have been complaining, and have found a means of curbing noise pollution by reporting to Various Agencies in charge, these agencies include; the New York City Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), the New York City Police Department (NYPD), the Department of Sanitation New York (DSNY), and the New York Economic Development Corporation (NYCEDC). Noise pollution has increased over the years in NYC and several Agencies are put in place to handle noise complaints, the agencies measure the noise level (dBA), distance from noise, time and duration. Commercial space in NYC should not exceed 42 dBA as measured from nearby residences from 10 pm to 7 am, with animal noise having a time limit of shorter at night. Recently, community action groups like SONYC are trying to gather city noise in NYC, trying to feed Artificial Intelligence to figure out sound whether it violates the NYC noise code and searching for a team to carry out this project is on because it is difficult to model citywide noises because noises vary in different locations, and can change significantly over some time, neighbors tolerant to noise also matter as to some tend to entertain some level of noise while some might not. In reality, people are more worried about night noise than daytime noise because the night is associated with resting time, but still, a mild noise at night can be considered noise pollution due to low tolerance for noise, even the so-called sound sensors depend on the sensor data which might not be efficient enough due to several sound sources we have in an urban area. For example, 40% of noise in the evening comes from loud music while 30% and 10% come from Vehicles and construction respectively, this can help a model or sensor tackle noise pollution in a given environment. Since 2010 New York City created a platform named 311, residents of NYC can use the mobile app or make a call to raise complaints on what is not an emergency but can annoy an individual, and yearly 311 get to witness an increase in several complaints which includes noise complaint as one of the most recorded complaints day in day out when individuals are complaining, they will be questioned by Agents of the agencies to give certain data like (location, time, category of noise)  which will help in swift response and later serve the purpose of data analysis to keep record and device models and technologies to help tackle noise pollution. Unfortunately, big data keeps on increasing urban data such as POIs, social networks, and road networks, these urban data tend to correlate with urban noises, making it hard to pin urban noises.  The following factors were considered in our research.

Linear regression (Ordinary Least Square OLS) is used to model the noise pollution in NYC. It has four dimensions: agency, resolution_time, hour and year. Three predictions were made: the first, which trains and tests the resolution time, produced very good results with a mean squared error of 1.49 and a variance score of 0.37; the second, which trains and tests hour and year, produced very poor results with a mean squared error of 2.36 and a variance score of 0.01, indicating the hour and year cannot predict resolution time, the last and third tests and trains We can conclude that resolution time depends on the hour and agency because the agencies in charge of handling noise complaints provided very good results with a mean squared error of 1.49 and a variance score of 0.37. The visualization of noise data in NYC will be the final step of this research.
